PULSEPAL - CONNECTED PHONE HEALTH PROTOTYPE
Branch: feature/phone-health-sync
Date: 22 September 2026

STATUS AND BOUNDARIES

This branch starts the real-data product without replacing the offline demo.
The Windows connected-health window receives authorized native phone health
records through a separate, opt-in HTTPS listener. It does not feed records into
DemoEngine, simulate missing values, infer stress, diagnose disease or promise
emergency monitoring. The existing avatar, attention shield and guided demo
continue to operate on synthetic data only.

PulsePal is not a medical device.
Phone health records are not a continuous live sensor feed.

IMPLEMENTED PATHS

Android / Samsung:
  A native .NET Android companion reads the Android 14+ platform Health Connect
  store. Samsung is an Android path, not a separate OS integration. Samsung
  Health must be configured to share supported records with Health Connect.
  Availability depends on the health source, wearable, country and permissions.
  The Samsung Health proprietary SDK is not integrated. The separate Health
  Connect provider on Android 9-13 is not supported by this first adapter.

iPhone:
  A native .NET iOS / UIKit companion uses HealthKit read queries. An Apple Watch
  or another source must already have written readable records into Apple Health.
  Windows cannot directly read Apple Health. The iPhone app is required.
  Managed compilation on Windows does not validate native AOT/linking, signing,
  installation, HealthKit authorization or local-network behavior. Those require
  a compatible Mac/Xcode setup and a signed physical-device deployment.

Measurements:
  Heart rate: beats per minute, original sample time and source.
  Blood pressure: actual systolic and diastolic values in mmHg; HealthKit reads
  correlated pairs rather than combining unrelated quantity samples.
  Stress: Unsupported / not provided. No universal phone-health stress metric
  is assumed and heart rate alone is not interpreted as stress.

The app requests read permissions only for user-selected heart-rate and/or BP
categories. Nothing is selected automatically. It does not request write access.
Heart-rate queries cover a bounded recent 24-hour window; BP covers seven days.
Batches contain at most 256 measurements. Platform adapters may apply smaller
per-category limits. This is a recent snapshot, not a complete health archive.
Native source permissions/history limits can further restrict the results.

WINDOWS BUILD AND START

From the repository root in PowerShell:

  dotnet build .\PP_code.slnx -c Release -p:Platform=x64
  dotnet test .\PulsePal.Tests\PulsePal.Tests.csproj -c Release
  dotnet publish .\PulsePal.App\PulsePal.App.csproj -c Release -p:Platform=x64 -r win-x64 --self-contained true -o .\artifacts\PulsePalConnected
  .\artifacts\PulsePalConnected\PulsePal.App.exe

The separate publish folder avoids overwriting a running offline demo.
Distribute the whole folder, including WinUI resources and the ASP.NET runtime.
The Windows solution includes the shared protocol and receiver, not the mobile
projects. Running a solution build does not compile or install either phone app.

ANDROID BUILD AND INSTALL

Use the .NET 10 Android workload, compatible Android SDK and JDK installed by
Visual Studio. The phone must run Android 14 or later for actual health reads.
The project can install on older supported Android versions, but reports the
native health API as Unsupported there.

  dotnet build .\PulsePal.Phone.Android\PulsePal.Phone.Android.csproj -c Release

Install the generated signed APK in that project's bin\Release output using
Visual Studio's Android deployment or adb:

  adb devices
  adb -s YOUR_DEVICE_SERIAL install -r "FULL_PATH_TO_SIGNED_APK"

Use an explicitly selected test phone, not another person's attached device.
The local development signing key is not a production/store signing setup.
The debug-only native-read instrumentation is not included in Release and is
not a source of production health data. Emulator fixture reads do not establish
that a real wearable syncs correctly. No app-store publishing is configured.

Before pairing, use Health Connect's system settings to confirm that the source
health app has written records and that PulsePal Phone can request access. For
Samsung, enable the supported Samsung Health -> Health Connect sharing route.
PulsePal cannot make an unsupported Samsung metric appear in Health Connect.

IPHONE BUILD AND INSTALL

Use PulsePal.Phone.iOS\PulsePal.Phone.iOS.csproj explicitly on an appropriately
configured Mac with compatible .NET iOS workload / Xcode, Apple signing and a
provisioning profile with the HealthKit capability. The bundle ID must match
your registered application; update both ApplicationId and CFBundleIdentifier
if changing it. See PulsePal.Phone.iOS\PlatformNotes.txt for platform details.

Equivalent build command (adapt path separators to the Mac shell):

  dotnet build .\PulsePal.Phone.iOS\PulsePal.Phone.iOS.csproj -c Release -f net10.0-ios -r ios-arm64

The app declares HealthKit read usage and local-network usage. Allow local
network access to reach Windows. Native Release JSON/trimming, TLS pinning,
authorization and record queries still need signed-device validation.

PAIRING AND FIRST SYNC

1. Put Windows and the phone on the same trusted private network. Guest Wi-Fi,
   client isolation or enterprise network policy may block device-to-device
   traffic even if both devices display the same Wi-Fi name.
   On the phone, choose categories and grant the selected health read permissions
   BEFORE pairing. Android clears local pairing whenever its activity is paused,
   including when it opens the health permission/policy screen.
2. Open Connected health from PulsePal's tray menu or companion menu.
   It opens OFF: no listening socket starts until explicitly requested.
3. Select the active private IPv4 interface reachable by the phone and a free
   TCP port (default 47831). Click Start listener. Only that address is bound;
   the normal UI does not offer wildcard/public/loopback binding.
4. Copy the one-time pairing JSON to the intended phone by a trusted local
   transfer method, then paste into PulsePal Phone. This first version uses
   copy/paste, not a QR scanner. Never send it to a public service or commit it.
   The payload expires after two minutes; refresh on Windows if necessary.
5. On the phone, choose Pair. Compare the FULL request ID and expiry displayed
   on the phone with the selected pending Windows request. The device's name is
   self-reported, not proof of identity. Approve only a matching request.
6. Tap Check desktop approval on Android (the equivalent approval action on
   iPhone). Only the approved requesting client receives a session credential.
   If the response is lost before receipt, revoke and pair afresh; credentials
   are not repeatedly delivered or recovered from disk.
7. Confirm the categories selected in step 1. Android shows actual Health
   Connect permission state. If more permissions are needed after pairing,
   grant them, revoke the old session on Windows and pair again. iOS cannot
   conclusively reveal denied read permission; empty results are not proof.
8. Tap Sync now. Windows shows each received record's value, unit, original
   interval, source and separate desktop receipt timestamp. Sync is manual and
   foreground-only. Background delivery/continuous monitoring is not enabled.
9. Use Revoke and disconnect or Stop and clear session when finished. Closing
   the connected-health window stops its listener and discards connected state.
   Phone-side disconnect clears local credentials; if remote revocation cannot
   be confirmed, also revoke on Windows.

Keep the phone app in the foreground for the paired session. Leaving it clears
local credentials and selections; it does not revoke a Windows session while
backgrounded. On return, revoke the old session on Windows, refresh pairing and
pair again. The iOS HealthKit authorization sheet only makes the app inactive
and does not by itself clear the session. No background sync is implied.

PulsePal does not automatically add firewall rules or require elevation.
If Windows asks for firewall access, follow your organization's policy and allow
only the trusted private network if appropriate. Do not enable a public-network
exception or disable the firewall to make pairing work.

READING THE DISPLAY

Missing measurements are not zero. A selected category can report Available,
NoData, Denied, Unsupported or PermissionNotVerifiable. A missing category is
Not provided. On iPhone, an empty/unusable query reports PermissionNotVerifiable
because HealthKit intentionally does not reveal whether read permission was
denied. Permission-sheet completion does not prove read access was granted.

Every measurement retains its own timestamp. A recent sync of yesterday's
measurement does not turn it into a current reading. The desktop uses a
15-minute presentation age label ("Older record (not live)"), not a clinical
cutoff. Even a recent record is not described as a live sensor stream.
Phone clock skew is displayed rather than silently restamping measurements.

The latest category status can say NoData/Denied while previously accepted
measurements remain in the session; these are explicitly historical records.
There is no automatic deletion reconciliation with HealthKit/Health Connect.
Delete desktop records removes only the desktop copy and category statuses.
It cannot delete phone records; another sync may send those records again.

Repeat batches do not duplicate existing source/metric/record identities.
Higher versions can replace prior records; equal/older versions do not refresh
the original desktop receipt timestamp. The desktop retains at most 2,048
records for its single paired phone and evicts the oldest received entries
when full. It does not aggregate overlapping sources or infer clinical trends.

SECURITY AND PRIVACY MODEL

The listener is explicitly enabled, uses TLS 1.2/1.3 and creates an ephemeral
certificate with the selected local IP as its subject alternative name. Its
SHA-256 pin is transferred with the pairing payload; the client verifies that
exact certificate, its validity/lifetime and host. This deliberately trusts
the out-of-band pairing identity, not any self-signed certificate. There is no
unconditional validation callback, cleartext HTTP fallback or redirect follow.
Clients do not use proxies. Only canonical private IPv4 HTTPS pairing endpoints
are accepted; loopback is reserved for automated transport tests.

The challenge is random, single-use and short-lived. Explicit desktop approval
is required before issuing the random session token. Pairing/poll/sync requests
are rate-limited and bounded. Unauthorized ingestion is rejected before request
body binding. Strict JSON, explicit metric/unit assumptions and record validation
reject malformed or implausible payloads; these checks are not medical analysis.

One phone pairs at a time. Session access expires no later than the ephemeral
certificate (approximately eight hours). Stop and restart for a new certificate.
Refreshing an unused challenge invalidates pending requests. Revoke removes the
paired token, records and statuses; refresh the challenge to pair again.

Tokens and health records are held in process memory, not app files or the
demo's plaintext state.json. Phone processes do not save credentials to settings.
The receiver suppresses request/payload diagnostics to avoid health/secret logs.
On Windows, TLS uses a temporary OS key container required by Schannel; it is
disposed with the certificate and is not installed as a trusted root.
An abnormal OS/process failure does not guarantee forensic erasure.

Copy pairing payload uses Windows clipboard options disabling history/roaming
and best-effort ownership-aware cleanup. Manual keyboard/context-menu copy does
not have those protections. Other clipboard tools, OS paging, crash dumps,
screenshots and compromised devices are outside the application's guarantees.
Do not use a cloud clipboard or untrusted chat to transfer pairing material.
The first prototype does not provide hardware attestation, enterprise identity,
durable encrypted record storage or production security certification.

API / SOURCE MAP

PulsePal.Connected:
  HealthRecord, category availability, pairing and sync DTOs.
  Strict shared JSON and PinnedBridgeClient.

PulsePal.Bridge:
  BridgeHost owns explicit HTTPS startup/shutdown and the certificate.
  BridgeService owns approval, tokens and bounded volatile record handling.
  BridgeValidator validates wire records. Endpoints use safe Problem Details.
  POST /v1/pairing: consume one challenge and create a pending request.
  POST /v1/pairing/status: retrieve approval using the request ID + poll secret.
  POST /v1/records: authenticated bounded idempotent sync.
  DELETE /v1/session: authenticated revoke and clear.
  Approval, rejection and desktop reads are in-process only, not LAN endpoints.
  PulsePal.Bridge.http describes the wire requests with placeholders, not keys.
  Do not disable certificate checking in an HTTP tool to use those examples.
  Development-only OpenAPI is available at /openapi/v1.json when the hosting
  environment is Development. There is no public health-record GET endpoint.

PulsePal.App:
  ConnectedHealthWindow and AppController.Connected provide the separate UI.
  The existing demo DI provider, synthetic storage and analysis are unchanged.

PulsePal.Phone.Android / PulsePal.Phone.iOS:
  Native permission UI and read adapters plus the shared pinned client.
  No Bluetooth discovery, direct wearable protocol or vendor password scraping.

VALIDATION AND REMAINING DEVICE WORK

Automated tests exercise the actual HTTPS receiver using disposable fixtures:
pin/host/lifetime rejection, approval, challenge expiry/replay, unauthorized
requests, strict parsing/size/range limits, concurrency, deduplication, versioned
updates, timestamps, revocation and volatile cleanup.

  dotnet test .\PulsePal.Tests\PulsePal.Tests.csproj -c Release
  .\artifacts\PulsePalConnected\PulsePal.App.exe --smoke-test-connected

Connected desktop smoke runs on loopback with isolated demo-state/log paths,
checks OFF-by-default entry points, HTTPS authorization and close/shutdown
cleanup. It does not authorize a phone, read a wearable or replace real-device
acceptance. Existing presentation/full-demo smoke flags remain available.

Before describing this as device-verified, perform the following with consent:
  - Build/install the intended native Release app on a physical phone.
  - Confirm source records independently in Health Connect / Apple Health.
  - Grant and deny each category separately; verify empty/unavailable states.
  - Complete two-sided pairing with matching request IDs.
  - Compare actual value, source, units and original timestamp on both devices.
  - Repeat sync; verify no duplicate/newly timestamped old measurements.
  - Confirm BP absence is unavailable, never inferred from HR.
  - Test changed permissions, local-network denial, stale readings and clock skew.
  - Try incorrect pin, expired challenge, wrong request and desktop revocation.
  - Close/background during permission/query/upload; confirm no automatic retry.
  - Test local/remote disconnect while offline and manual Windows revocation.
  - On iOS, validate linked/AOT Release serialization and pinned TLS on device.

Still future: QR-assisted pairing, Android 9-13 provider compatibility, background
sync/change tokens/deletion reconciliation, additional vitals, approved Samsung
SDK metrics, durable protected storage, multiple phones, optional remote relay,
real-data wellness inference and production packaging/security review.

Official platform references:
https://developer.android.com/health-and-fitness/health-connect
https://developer.android.com/reference/android/health/connect/HealthConnectManager
https://developer.samsung.com/health
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/healthkit
https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/ios/
